G'day, I'm Appy Dave and I'm sitting in my apartment slash my YouTube studio.
Now, I've just flown in from Chiang Mai about a week ago up here in Brisbane and I live
between the two countries, six months there, six months here, and whenever I'm travelling
and I have my YouTube studio, I'm bringing my stream decks, my lights, my computer and
a couple of other bits and bobs, but I only bring about 15 kilos worth of equipment and
one of the things I don't bring with me is a grand screen.
So today, what I thought I'd do is build a DIY grand screen.
It's essentially going to take us about 10 minutes to do.
Then at the end, I'll be able to create my intros and my outros using B-roll from the
video I've just done a tutorial on and have it show up behind me in the video.
I had a look at the area that I've got behind me.
How do I do something that's portable?
I looked at this little hook up here and I thought maybe I could get a draw down grand
screen, but the problem I've had with all of them is they're pretty expensive and I've
got to be careful that I don't damage the house.
I thought what I really need is a grand screen that's only about this high and wide enough
so that when I'm sitting in front of the microphone and the screen, it just captures me and I'm
going to do this for all my intros.
And behind me will be screenshots from whatever I was doing in the video or screenshots that
I've created using Leonardo AI.
I've gone and bought this packing box.
It's a packing box for a bike and the good thing about it is it's fairly light.
When I put it on its side, it's about the height that I need for a grand screen and it's definitely
the width I need for a grand screen.
So the next thing I did was I went to the local material shop and I bought a little bit of
green screen material.
Now this particular material I bought is 1.2 meters by 1.5 meters, so I guess that's about
three or four foot by about five foot.
And what I'd like to do today is mount it onto this box and I'm going to use staples
to do this.
And then what we'll do is we'll put it up behind me whenever I need to do some recording.
Now I need to be able to carry this so I'm just going to put a handle into the box.
And now I've got this handle that I can hold.
Same thing at the other end.
So I've got our grand screen, let's go and put it into position.
So I'm in Brisbane and it's just come down hard with the rain.
Luckily we got the green screen done just before the rain came down.
So we had the green screen set up behind us right here.
Now we don't need to take the whole frame.
The main goal here is that the body, the talking head is covered by the green screen.
So let's see it in action.
So what we can do in something like Ecamm Live, I'm here with Jim, is we can just click
on this green screen and the image that I've got showing over here now shows in behind.
Now one of the things you can see, there's a little bit of a shadow going on from Jim's
head.
But what I'll do later on is put some lights behind me just to light up the background and
the green screen just showing normally or with an image behind it.
And all I need to do is make sure I'm in position enough that I'm covered.
And the good thing is that was only $15.
I'm Abbey Dave, see you in the next video.